---
layout: "post"
title: "Learning 2: Apologize earnestly"
permalink: "Learning 2"
tag: "learning"
excerpt: ""
---

"I'm sorry that I hurt your feelings, but you're really just too sensitive sometimes."

"I'm sorry that I left the dishes in the sink, but you leave your gym clothes on the floor all the time."

"I'm sorry I was late, things were busy at work and I lost track of time"

I have been on both ends of apologies like these, they can feel so good to give yet so bad to get. 

They feel good. Tagging on a "but", "and" or pause and then whatever else afterwards eases my conscience. It protects my ego and makes me seem reasonable. Because even though I was wrong in this case, which I have gladly acknowledged, I have also correctly pointed out that you've been wrong in a similar case. And so we are technically even. Or better yet, by tagging on circumstances outside of my control I completely absolve myself of all responsibility. 

And in doing so, in apologizing to make myself feel better, I have very likely made the other person feel worse. The "buts", "ands" and pauses don't show that I've considered this case from their perspective. These tags have the tendency to diminish how others are feeling. 

In protecting my ego, I wound theirs. 

In making myself seem reasonable, I imply that they aren't. 

An apology should be earnest. It shouldn't be made if we're making it for ourselves. I'm trying to be mindful of this, and to apologize better. 

Thanks for your time, thanks for reading.
