---
layout: "post"
title: "A Million Miles in a Thousand Years"
permalink: "A Million Miles in a Thousand Years"
excerpt: "Donald Miller shares lessons he learned while editing his life. Key takeaway, we can create instigating events in our lives, and it's how we interact with instigating events (of our own creation or otherwise) that is really important"
---
# The Author in One Sentence

Donald Miller is an American author, public speaker, and business owner, he is the CEO of StoryBrand, a marketing company and is also an author of personal essays and reflections about faith, God, and self-discovery.

# The Book in 3 Sentences

1. **A good story is about a character who wants something, and has to overcome something to get it**
2. **Every good movie has an inciting event at the beginning which spurs the character to action**
3. **The achievement (whatever it may be) while nice, is not the ultimate reward, the ultimate reward is the journey that changes you**

# Impressions

Donald Miller is a religious man. This is clear from the first and last chapters of this book, as he writes about what he and God might chat about once his life here on earth ends. 

I can be a skeptical person. I find that the people who adhere to the belief that 'everything happens or a reason' most ardently are those who believe in a higher power, one who is ultimately benevolent and will ensure that everything in life turns out alright - reading life advice from someone who embraces these ideas makes me wary because I like to think that how life turns out is up to us.*

*It's up to us up to a certain extent. Sapiens had touched on how we have different emotional spectrums. On a scale of 1-10 (where 1 represents the lowest of lows and 10 represents euphoria), some of us operate between 4 and 6, while others operate between 5-9. Similar to that, our 'lowest potential', 'highest potential' and the range between the two vary from person to person due to the combination of nature and nurture, but how we move along that spectrum is entirely up to us. 

## Who Should Read It?

Everyone should read this book!

# How the Book Changed Me

How my life / behaviour / thoughts / ideas have changed as a result of reading the book.

This book is an excellent reminder that we can either live our lives as a passive observer or as an active participant, and that choosing to do the latter requires courage. But courage builds on courage, and the nice thing is that you can start small.

# My Top 3 Quotes

- "...I remembered about story, about how every conflict, no matter how hard, comes back to bless the protagonist if he will face is fate with courage. There is no conflict man can endure that will not produce a blessing."
- "There is a lot of money and power to be had in convincing people we can create an Eden here on earth. Cults are formed when leaders make such absurd promises. Products are sold convincing people that they are missing out on a perfect life."
- "...I've lied some good stories now, and those stories have improved the quality of my life. But I've also let go of the idea things will ever be made perfect, at least while I am walking around on this planet. I've let go of the idea that this life has a climax. I'm trying to be more Danish, I guess. And the thing is, it works. When you stop expecting people to be perfect, you can like them for who they are." *In reference to Danes, who are the happiest on earth and have relatively low expectations*

# Summary + Notes

It was pleasantly surprising to find that Miller writes about how we ourselves can write a better life for ourselves. It's been a while since I've read a novel, and reading through this book brought back a sense of familiarity - it's written like fiction (not sure why I felt this way, perhaps because it flowed more easily than the last book I finished), and I'd like to think that was done deliberately. 

He writes about his mundane existence, he watches a lot of TV, he's out of shape, has no (mentioned) hobbies, then introduces his inciting event - two film makers want to adapt his biography for the big screen. As they edit his story into one that is movie appropriate, he begins to feel insecure as he realizes that all the changes are being made in order to make his life more 'interesting', or to make it so that the audience is more willing to 'root for him'.

Like a character in a movie, he doesn't let this inciting event pass him by. It spurs him to create other inciting events in his life, to live practice stories as he calls them. He decides to find his father, whom he hasn't spoken to in over two decades, and holds himself accountable by telling a handful of friends about his plan. He decides to hike the Inca trail, googling the trail plus 'excruciating' each time he thinks about skipping a workout as he prepares to do so. 

I like this idea, this one of creating little chapters.

## 1. Creating little chapters to live

I have these two friends who consistently pushed themselves outside of their comfort zones, they create little chapters to live out, ones that begin with just the right amount of trepidation. And how beautiful is that? We get to create a tiny amount of uncertainty at the expense of a tiny (and in the long run, very negligible) amount of discomfort, risking temporary embarrassment for potentially a huge reward. We knows where this chapter will lead? And even if it leads nowhere, even if nothing in life changes afterwards, you would be emboldened. 

**Confidence only comes from experience.** 

Inciting events can be far and few in between, and we might overlook the ones that aren't obvious, or resist the ones that look too daunting. I don't want to do that. I want to be observant enough to notice these inciting events, and brave enough to meet them as they come, and what better way to prepare for these than to live practice stories? **** 

## 2. Focus on the journey and look inwards

This book brings *The Alchemist* back to mind, and touches on Buddhist principals as well. I feel like a broken record at this point, having written these learnings and turned them over in my head a countless number of times recently - but this is not a bad thing. **Like our muscles, our beliefs need constant exercising as well.**

In the book, Miller discusses the movie *Friday Night Lights*. The movie is about the Odessa football team, and chooses to focus on the year the team lost instead of the year the team won because during the former **the team sacrificed more*.*** This plays out better on screen for sure, we as an audience invest more emotionally and root for a lead more the more they give, try, sacrifice and 'deserve it' (earlier on, the author had discussed the movie *Rocky,* in which the first half an hour is dotted with acts of generosity and kindness by the title character). 

Now how ironic is it that we ourselves, are unwilling to do the same. Ironic and certainly detrimental, but not surprising. Any inciting event introduces uncertainty, and uncertainty introduces the potential of a bad outcome. Even if our current situations are bad, we choose not to change them or change ourselves because at least it is something that is familiar - perhaps that's part of the reason we will choose to do nothing.