---
layout: "post"
title: "Crony Beliefs"
permalink: "Crony Beliefs"
excerpt: "Our belief systems fall into two major categories, merit based ones (which reward us with an ability to accurately model the world) and crony ones (which reward us with approval from our pears)."
---
# The Article in 3 Sentences

1. **"Crony beliefs"** are ones that we believe in for purposes of posturing / making impressions, they reward us with socially-useful benefits in the form of favourable impressions
2. **"Merit Beliefs"** are ones we believe in for purposes of modeling and navigating the world, they reward us with effective actions
3. **Strong emotions** are the strongest indicator of a crony belief (along with the belief being abstract and impractical, receiving the benefit of the doubt, conspicuousness, overconfidence and reluctance to bet)

# Impressions

This was a very interesting read, the ACME company industry was especially great - it really captures and conveys the central idea that the author is presenting. 

Instead of asking **"why do I believe something",** we can ask ourselves **"what benefit does this belief bring me?"** Our beliefs serve different purposes, and the author has bucketed these into two distinct ones; (1) Helping take effective action or (2) Helping us look a certain way to a certain group of people

Fitting in is important, this is a vestigial survival trait - if you didn't fit in with your fellow hunter-gatherers, you run the risk of being expunged from the group which meant certain death. We often find ourselves taking actions that are meant to help us fit in, and actions are driven by thoughts / beliefs (right?). 

As I was reading this article, I kept thinking about our risk-averse nature. The hope of winning something we don't have might very well not be outweighed by the fear of losing something we do have, the subconscious prioritization of the latter makes it so that we make risk-averse decisions. 

**So then is it possible that the subconscious process of adopting beliefs is also a risk-averse one?** 

After all, is it more beneficial to model the world accurately if this model is at odds with the ones that your peers have adopted? Why risk standing out? 

The author's closing paragraphs touched how we can eliminate crony beliefs, the only way to truly do so is to change our entire ecosystem - everyone must prioritize merit-base beliefs. Now that's insanely unrealistic, so the best we can do is probably:

1) Consistently reflect on our own beliefs 

2) Identify the crony ones 

3) Be at piece with the fact that even if these beliefs exist, and will always exist 

## Who Should Read It?

Everyone needs to read this article. 

# How the Article Changed Me

How my life / behaviour / thoughts / ideas have changed as a result of reading the book.

The biggest change this article has had on me is that I will now regularly actively engage in the practice of evaluating my belief systems. I mentioned to Hannah last week that I have a fear of having strong convictions regarding something that is as subjectively wrong to me as anti-vax, and not knowing how to identify these beliefs. 

Knowing now that **strong emotions** are the hallmark characteristic of crony beliefs gives me a a way to identify these beliefs, as does **the fear of judgement***.* This second one is a big one, because it's much to easy to go along with something simply because everyone else goes along with it.

This ties back to central themes in both *Sapiens* and *The Future of Capitalism!* 

# My Top 3 Quotes

- "By way of analogy, let's consider how beliefs in the brain are like employees at a company. This isn't a perfect analogy, but it'll get us 70% of the way there."
- "Mild or otherwise, these incentives are also pervasive. Everywhere we turn, we face pressure to adopt crony beliefs. At work, we're rewarded for believing good things about the company. At church, we earn trust in exchange for faith, while facing severe sanctions for heresy. In politics, our allies support us when we toe the party line, and withdraw support when we refuse. (When we say politics is the mind-killer, it's because these social rewards completely dominate the pragmatic rewards, and thus we have almost no incentive to get at the truth.) Even dating can put untoward pressure on our minds, insofar as potential romantic partners judge us for what we believe...**If you've ever wanted to believe something, ask yourself where that desire comes from**"
- "**Just as money can pervert scientific research, so everyday social incentives have the potential to distort our beliefs**."