---
layout: "post"
title: "Lesson 3: Separate intent from interpretation"
permalink: "Lesson 3"
tag: "learning"
excerpt: ""
---

"Is it ever ok for a person to lash out?"

I was talking to a friend the other day, and this question came up. 

We all lash out now and then, intentionally and unintentionally. And we'll always be able to justify our lashing out in a certain scenario while invalidating someone else's in a similar one.

I think the best thing to do in both cases is to separate intent from interpretation. Say someone snaps and says something hurtful. If this person has made a habit of doing so, then walking away from the conversation could be a good idea. In fact, walking away from the relationship altogether could be a great idea. But it isn't the people routinely choosing to inflict hurt that complicate things. It's the people who cause hurt without intending to that do so. 

In these cases, I think it's important to give people the benefit of the doubt because that's what I hope they would do for me. On gloomy or anxious days, thoughtless words have left my mouth and left a feeling of regret and guilt as they did so. And having someone say "Your words were hurtful, I know you didn't mean for them to be, but they were" with genuine empathy, is a true kindness. And it's a kindness we can share with others. 

It's important to look past our perceived interpretations and emotions and to focus on the intent of the people we're interacting with.

Thanks for your time, thanks for reading.