---
layout: "post"
title: "Learning 1: Confidence only comes from experience"
permalink: "Learning 1"
tag: "learning"
excerpt: ""
---

Mark Twain said that we would end up regretting the things we didn't do more than the things we did. And I think he was right. 

Have you ever been in a situation that required a choice between two actions, one decidedly comfortable and the other decidedly not? Did the thought of that decidedly uncomfortable action make your heart beat a little faster? Did it make you feel like the room was suddenly too warm? Did your breathing speed up? What did you end up doing? 

I have spent the vast majority of my life choosing to go with the comfortable action, which means that I didn't try to start a conversation after accidentally bumping into that very cute boy. 
I didn't take credit for my work as it was being presented to a very senior manager. 
I didn't express my admiration for the doctor I look up to after attending his presentation. 

And if I had done those things, what would have been the worst thing that could have happened? The sad truth is, I have no way of knowing. I used to give myself a hard time over these "could-have, should-have, would-have but didn't" situations. But then the next time a similar choice came up, I would do the same thing I had always done. Choosing comfort had become habitual and habits can be very tricky to break. But I have learned that we can create opportunities for ourselves to choose discomfort, and from that discomfort we gain so much.

I have two good friends, one that I've known since I was twelve and one that I met on academic exchange during the senior year of my undergraduate degree. They routinely put themselves in situations that are right on the edge of their comfort zone, situations that induce a quickened heart rate, a flushed face and shortness of breath. Maybe they choose to attend a salsa class. Or show up at a party where they don't know anyone especially well. And of course there is always a little discomfort or a bit of embarrassment, but to them, that's a very good price to pay for what they gain. 

With each new experience, they are able to look back with the realization that more often than not, they are much more capable they had thought they were. With each new experience, they push their comfort zones outwards and the chances of regret due to "could-have, should-have, would-have but didn't" downwards. 

I think finally understanding this concept, that confidence only comes from experience, is what lead to this website. 

Thanks for your time, thanks for reading.